# EcoTRACE - Supplementary Information and Code Repository

This repository contains the analysis code accompanying the EcoTRACE manuscript submitted to *Nature Climate Change*. It includes all scripts, preprocessed data, and documentation required to reproduce the reported analyses, figures, tables, and supplementary information.

## System Requirements

All software dependencies and the operating system used to run the code in this repository are documented in each script under the section **"Expand for Session Info"**. The code has been tested on the R version and package versions specified in these sections. No non-standard hardware is required to run the code.

## Installation Guide

The code execution requires a standard installation of **R version 4.4.0 or higher**. All necessary packages are indicated in the code chunks labeled **"setup"** within each script as well as under the section **Expand for Session Info**. Running the "setup" code chunk will automatically download and install all required packages. The typical installation time is less than 5 minutes.

## Repository Overview

The code is written in **Quarto (.qmd) files**, as this file format allows to seamlessly integrate R code, instructions, and output within a single document. To facilitate easy access to the expected output and detailed explanations, we rendered the Quarto files as a **website**, which can be navigated interactively. The website includes all analyses, figures, and tables reported in the manuscript or in the Supplementary Information. The website also contains the complete Supplementary Information. The website is hosted via GitHub Pages and can be accessed at the following link:

[EcoTRACE Website](https://juliebuchs.github.io/EcoTRACE/)

``` text
EcoTRACE/
├── data/                     Preprocessed data used for all analyses
├── docs/                     Rendered GitHub Pages website
├── functions/                Custom R functions used throughout the project
├── images/                   Figures generated by the scripts and additional images                               used by the website
├── powerSimulationsOutput/   Saved outputs from power simulations
├── results/                  Saved outputs from analyses
├── scripts/                  Quarto scripts containing all analyses
├── _quarto.yml               Quarto project configuration
├── index.qmd                 Website landing page
├── styles.css                Custom website styling
├── README.md
└── SupplementaryInformation_EcoTRACE.Rproj
```

## Instructions for Use

To reproduce the outputs reported in this project, users can clone or download this repository, follow the installation guide and system requirements described above, and execute the provided code.

The preprocessed data required to reproduce all reported analyses are included in the **`data/`** directory.

The code is designed to run efficiently on a standard desktop computer or laptop. However, certain code chunks—those fitting computationally intensive statistical models and performing power simulations—may require several hours to complete. To circumvent lengthy computations, the corresponding outputs are provided as saved .RDS files in the **`results/`** and **`powerSimulationsOutput/`** directories. By default, the scripts will load these saved files. Users wishing to rerun the analyses from scratch can either delete the files in the **`results/`** directory to recompute the statistical models (which will be done automatically if the directory is empty) or enable the corresponding power simulation code chunks by setting **`eval: true`** and adjusting the output file names before executing the script.

## License

This project is released under the terms of the [**MIT License**](https://opensource.org/license/mit/).

## Contact

For any questions or issues, feel free to open an **issue on GitHub** or contact the repository owner directly:

[Julie Buchs](mailto:julie.buchs@unibe.ch?subject=NCC%20Stage%202%20Registered%20Report)
